# JavaScript Introduction

---

### Values

Let's get started by understanding values. And what do I mean by that?

When we write code, especially when we write JavaScript code, we typically have the intention of manipulating what the user sees on the screen. Outputting some texts, updating some texts, maybe outputting some number, anything like that..

And therefore, we typically work with **values** in our code.

Working with text is very common - `strings` as it's called in programming. And that's a typical value we work with in JavaScript.

Another ubiquitus value we work with in JavaScript are `numbers`

That could be an age of a user or the length of a string... so many possibilities !

And there are other value types as well, which we are going to see throughout this course section. (`Booleans`, `Objects`, `Arrays`...)

Now... when we work with values, we typically do that in the context of **variables**.

And that's another key concept which you will encounter in basically every programming language out there, not just in JavaScript.

### Variables

A variable is basically a box, a container.
You could say variables are **_labeled data containers_**. (A container that has a name so we can identify it and that contains a value)

And the idea is the following : If you have a certain value, let's say the text a user entered - the `string` - , or the length of that text - so a `number` - Then you might want to store that value in such a data container so that you can use it later on in your code, in a different operation.

For example... If I am doing a counter, I'll have to have a variable that container the number `5`, for example, and then, one second later, changes to `4`, then one second later `3`, etc.

That is data management through code.
