# Javascript Variables

---

Originally, JavaScript used the `var` syntax to declare a variable. But this was problematic due to a phenomenon called `scope`. So `var` is deprecated now (even though it still works).

Don't worry, we will se what this is later in the course.

For now, what you have to understand is that there are two ways of declaring a variable in Javascript : `let` and `const`.

We use the following syntax :

```js
let myVariable = value;
```

You can think of `let` like : "Let this variable called `myVariable` be this `value`"

The thing with `let` is that we can change its value later.

In the other hand, `const` (which stands for "constant") can be declared just once and its value can never change. (If you try to change it, you'll get an error)

So :

```js
let counter = 1;

const pi = 3.14;
```

---

Have you noticed that at the end of each line there is a `;` ?
It means the line is over and we can go to the next line.

This is not mandatory (and your code will work without it) but it's good practice and very often your formatter will put them automatically.

---

We will see some native fonctions later, but I'd like to introduce you to two of them right now : `console.log()` and `alert()`.

`console.log()` will print your value to the console of the browser, `alert()` will fire a popup in the browser with your value.

Let's try it out ! After linking a javascript file to your html, write down this piece of code :

```js
let myName = "Henrique";

console.log(myName);

alert(myName);
```

Now, refresh your page and see what happens.
You'll automatically have a popup that prints "Henrique" and then you'll go to the console and you'll see "Henrique" printed as well.

We will use `console.log()` **ALL THE TIME** in our javascript experience !

---

One more thing : there is a naming convention to name variables in Javascript. It's called `camel case`. This means : we always begin the variable with a lowercase and if we want to put multiple words, we separate them with an uppercase. Examples :

```js
const myName = "Henrique";

const pi = 3.14;

const thisIsAVariableName = "lorem ipsum";
```

---

Let's do a little exercise :

- Let's say I want to convert Dolars in Euros. The exchange rate at this time is 0.93 That means I have to multiply an amount of Dolars with the exchange rate.

- If I want to print how much Euros is 50 Dolars, I could write :
  `console.log(50 * 0.93)`
  Result : 46.5

- Now I want to print how much 132 Dolar is in Euro :
  `console.log(132 * 0.93)`

- I have to repeat the exchange rate all the time. Plus : what if later the exchange rate changes (as it often does). It is easier to put the exchange rate in a variable so I can easily update one variable and the whole code will be updated as well.

```js
let exchangeRate = 0.93;

console.log(50 * exchangeRate);

console.log(132 * exchangeRate);

// Oups ! Today the exchange rate changed ! It's now 0.91 !
// I can just change the variable and re-run my code

exchangeRate = 0.91;
```

- Note that we only use `let` to initially **declare** the variable. After it's been declared, you can just assign it to a new value, as we did in the last line.
