### Strings

---

Strings are text. Texts are used all the time !
"String" means "sequence". And it's exactly that : a sequence of characters.

Strings are defined between quotes (it can be a quote or double quote) :

`const name1 = "Henrique";`
`const name2 = 'John';`

Be careful ! Your text can't have a double or single quote if it was opened with double or single quote ! Let me explain :

```js

const myString = 'Hello ! I'm Henrique'

```

See ? The string ended after the `I` and the rest `m Henrique` is just invalid JavaScript code.

This happend because, to JavaScript, your string started with a single quote and then ended in the single quote `I'm`.

The rest of the text (`m Henrique`) is... nothing !

And the you re-open a string at the end without any content (nor closure) later. What a mess !

---

Let's see now a property we can use with strings (and later also with arrays) : `length`. The name is pretty self explanatory. :P

```js
const myString = "I am a super hero!";

console.log(myString.length);
```

Result : 18 (note that the spaces are considered as characters as well)

---

Also, you can access a particular character of the string with what we call an `index`.

The index is the "position" a letter is at in a string.

But first you have to know that in programming language **we always start with the 0, not the 1** for indexes.

So... To access a letter we call its index between brackets :

```js
const myString = "Hello, World!";

myString[0]; // Result : "H"
myString[1]; // Result : "e"
myString[2]; // Result : "l"
myString[3]; // Result : "l"
myString[4]; // Result : "o"
myString[5]; // Result : "!"
// etc.
```

Let's do a guided excercise !

Let's say a visitor entered his bank account on our website : `N957324`

We know (in this example) that a bank account should be 7 digits.
We can easily perform a check if the number of digits is correct using the `length` property of strings :

```js
const bankAccount = "N957324";

bankAccount.length; // Returns : 7
```

Let's continue :
Let's say the first letter means "N" for "national" and "I" for international.

We can easily access the first letter in order to know if it's a national or an international account :

```js
bankAccount[0]; // Returns "N"
```

Ok... now let's say the first two letters means which country the bank account is from. `BE97684531265`

We will have here to introduce a string `method` to select only a portion of the string.

---

### Methods

Methods are functions (we will see them later) that belong to a specific... let's say `value` for now.

To use them, we use the `dot notation`.

That means, we "add" to the value a dot `.` and the name of the method with parenthesis.

Good thing: we can chain them !

```js
value.methodOne().methodTwo(); // etc.
```

#### Slice

The slice method "cuts" a string depending on the indexes we give it.

```js
bankAccount.slice(0, 2); // Returns "BE"
```

ATTENTION : the slice method includes the first index but doesn't include the second one.

So :

- it comes from 0 (`B`)
- It goes through 1 (`E`)
- And **doesn't** include the 2 (`9`)

So for example :

```js
const name = "Henrique";

name.slice(3, 6); // Returns : "riq"
```

---

#### Replace

There is also a method to replace a specific part of the string with another content.

Let's say all bank accounts from the website have an underscore `_` after the BE and we need to get rid of it in order to properly process it in our program.

It works like this :

```js
const bankAccount = "BE_954364";

bankAccount.replace("_", ""); // returns BE9554364
```

Here we replaced all underscores with an empty string.
But we can replace other things as well :

```js
const myString = "I am very sad";

myString.replace("sad", "happy");
```

Just a note :
When you use replace, you are not changing the variable. The expression `string.replace("blabla","something else")` returns the value, but if you want to change the variable you should reassign a value to it, like so :

```js
let myString = "I am very sad";

myString = myString.replace("sad", "happy");
```

We will see other string methods along the way. For now, you can see a list of all string methods [here](https://www.programiz.com/javascript/library/string).

Don't worry, there are a lot that we don't use often. Don't need to remember all of them ! ;)

For now you can watch [this video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uKKEdtNU5II&ab_channel=DevDreamer) that explains all the main ones you need as a beginner. (10 min) (**Mandatory**)

---

One last thing : **Concatenation**.

What if we want to combine different pieces of text ?

We can "add" strings one to another like this :

```js
console.log("I am " + "a big " + "bad wolf"); // Prints : "I am a big bad wolf"
```

That's great because we can now include dynamic text :

```js
const name = "Henrique";

console.log("Hello, I am " + name); // Prints : "Hello, I am Henrique"
```

Want another super usefull way of using string concatenation ? Let's learn about `template literals` !

Instead of a quote or double quote, use backticks to contain your text ` `` `

```js
const myString = `Hello World`;
```

It works the same way. BUT...

- You won't have any problems with single and double quotes inside the string
  And mostly :
- You can insert javascript code (for example, variables) inside of the string as such :

```js
const user = "Henrique";

let age = 35;

const greeting = `Hello, ${user} ! You are ${age} years old.`;

console.log(greeting); // Prints "Hello, Henrique ! You are 35 years old.
```

---

(OPTIONAL) More information on :

- [String data type](https://youtu.be/lOcFImavBkU?si=gaV39vrbP8_Mi6fE) (9 min)
- [Concatenation](https://youtu.be/BrQKPm1Uchc?si=IB-NlVuXNFPo9EFX) (8 min)
- [Template literals](https://youtu.be/52OJhTbCtoA?si=wY1MdUSvOgLbehzG) (8min)

---

**After this section, you should know :**

- How to declare strings (quotes and double quotes)
- Concatenation ("adding" texts together)
- How to declare template literals (backticks and `${}` to insert javascript inside the text)
- Access specific characters inside of a string (width indexes)
- The property `length`
- The methods :
  - .slice()
  - .replace()
  - .toUpperCase()
  - .toLowerCase()
  - .indexOf()
  - .lastIndexOf()
  - .trim()
