## Practice : Variables, Strings and Numbers

---

Little example :

Let's say you have a website where you want to display the name of a city, the weather condition and the temperature. We will have to have four variables.

Test this out in your machine :

```js
const city = "Brussels";

let weatherCondition = "rainy";

let temperature = 24.16879;

const weatherText = `The weather in ${city} is ${weatherCondition} and it's ${parseInt(
  temperature
)}°C outside`;

console.log(weatherText); // Prints : The weather in Brussels is rainy and it's 24°C outside.
```

---

Now let me present you a new command...

You already saw `alert()` that creates a popup with a message.
Did you know there is also `prompt()` ? It creates a popup as well but asks you to give an answer. This answer is what is returned by this operation.

Try for yourself :

```js
prompt("What is your name?");
```

You can now answer.

Ok... but where is your response ?

The response is returned but we didn't capture it anywhere. Why don't we use a variable to do it ?

Try :

```js
const name = prompt("What is your name?");

alert(`Welcome ${name}!`);
```

---

Now, do this :

- Ask your user what is his name.
- Ask your user how old is he.
- Ask your user where does he live.
- Alert a message presenting the user, his age and where he lives.

---

**VAT**

Write an algorithm which receives a price without VAT and returns the price with VAT with a rate of 21%. (prompt the price without VAT and alert the result with VAT)

---

**Surface of a circle**
Write an algorithm which receives the radius of a circle and calculate its surface. (prompt and alert) (serach on Google the formula to do it)

---

**Make a Calculator!** using prompt(), and variables, make a program that does the following:

1. Prompts the user for first number.
2. Stores that first number
3. Prompts the user for the second number.
4. stores that number and responds with the SUM by using an alert.

BONUS: Make a program that can subtract, multiply, and also divide!

---
