### JavaScripts While loops

---

The while loop is very similar to the For Loop but with a different syntax. (a syntax that is maybe even simpler)

```js
let num = 0;

while (num < 10) {
  console.log(num);
  num++;
}
```

This recreates what we've done with the For loop. Basically printing the number from 0 to 9

Attention though... It's very easy to enter an infinite loop when doing a while loop. If we don't pay attention, we can very easily do something like that :

```js
let count = 0;
while (count < 10) {
  console.log(count);
}
```

What's wrong with this piece of code ?

We never told `count` to change !

In a For loop, we are obligated to stipulate a changing behavior. Here, we can easily forget about it.

So pay attention ! ;)

---

#### Why and when use the While loop instead of the For loop ?

The FOR loop is very handy and prefered when we have a set amount of iterations to do. (until 100, during the lenght of an array, etc.)

When we don't know how many times a loop will run, the WHILE loop is more practical.

An example : in a game. Depending on the amount of moves the player will do, the game should continue while he doesn't get to his goal.

Think of a chess game. We don't know how much rounds it will take to end it.

The only **crucial** thing to remember is that we **must** expect a `false` value at some point. Otherwise it will never end.

Want a basic example ?

```js
const secretWord = "Hopper";

let guess;

while (guess !== secretWord) {
  guess = prompt("enter the secret code...");
}

alert("Congratulations! You got the secret code !");
```

This will ask you to enter a word, and while you don't get it, it will ask you again and again.

Then, when the condition is satisfied, it continues to run the code and the next line is "Congratulation, etc."

---

### The `break` keyword

Let me introduce you to the `break` keyword.

The "break" keyword is often used with While loops, but it can be used with other loops.

It basically tells the loop to stop no matter what is happening.

Let's see an example.

```js
while (true) {
  // OUF ! Be veeeery carefull with a "while true" It will run forever. And we must foresee a way of breaking the loop at some point

  const answer = prompt("Find the secret ");

  if (answer === "Hopper") {
    alert("Congratulations! You got the secret code !");
    break;
  }
}
```

---

Here is the video for the while loop where you'll also learn a different syntax : the "do...while". (**MANDATORY**)

[While loop](https://youtu.be/gTdesbu8nyo?si=RcQrUMIwa_RPcMYA)
