### JavaScripts Functions

---

Functions are reusable chunks of code that we wrap up and give it a name.

We use it all the time. I guarantee you'll use functions on (almost) any code you write from now on.

Let's look at an example.

Let's say I want to write a code that emulates the throw of dice.

We've already seen how to generate random numbers.

From one to six (a regulat die - yes, that's the singular of dice), we would do something like :

```js
let dieResult = Math.floor(Math.random() * 6 + 1);
```

Let's say we have to throw 4 dice. That would be :

```js
let dieResult1 = Math.floor(Math.random() * 6 + 1);
let dieResult2 = Math.floor(Math.random() * 6 + 1);
let dieResult3 = Math.floor(Math.random() * 6 + 1);
let dieResult4 = Math.floor(Math.random() * 6 + 1);
```

That's a lot of code we could spare!

What if we could create this code once and call it everytime we need to throw a die ?

That's when functions can be handy !

We define a fonction like this :

```js
function myFunction() {
  // Whatever code we want here
  return; // What the whole code returns
}
```

We've already seen this word `return` many times since we began to study JavaScript.

For example :

- The `includes` method on arrays `returns` a boolean.
- The `slice` method on strings `returns` the part of the string we "cut"
- The `indexOf` method on arrays `returns` the index number

We work with the value returned by an operation all the time.

Well... all these examples are actually functions (linked to the Array and String objects)

When we create a function, we are creating such a function, and it ought to return something as well that we can use as the result of the code.

We are not obligated to return somethinh, though...

We can make a procedural function that only do some logic and console.log some stuff. But that is not the main function of a... well... `function`.

**ATTENTION** : When you return something from a function, the code stops !! Nothing that you put afterwards will run.

**OTHER THING** : A function can only return one thing ! It could be an array or an object with several things inside, but the functions returns only one thing !

Let's get back to our dice.

We could have a function like this :

```js
function rollDice() {
  const result = Math.floor(Math.random() * 6 + 1);

  return result;
}
```

So now we can "capture" what comes from this function :

```js
const dieResult = rollDice();
```

(We always call a function with the parenthesis `()`. By the way, that's what we have been doing for all the methods we used untill now.)

If you don't put the parenthesis, you're not calling the function !

---

Let's go further!
What if we are playing a game with which the die has 12 numbers ?

Do we have to write another function with `Math.floor(Math.random() * 12 + 1);` ?

No ! We can use `parametes` in a function.

So, follow up this code :

```js
function rollDice(number) {
  return Math.floor(Math.random() * number + 1);
}

// So now I can call :

rollDice(6);
// or :
rollDice(12);
```

How many sizes I want !

I want a die that is 1346 faces ?

```js
rollDice(1346);
```

This is called `modularity`. The functions are modular !

---

Ok, so let's write our fist function !

This is a two step process : we **define** the function then we **run** (call) the function.

Once it's been declared, we can call a functions a thousand times if we want.

- Declare a function that logs to the console :

```js
console.log("DO");
console.log("RE");
console.log("MI");
console.log("FA");
console.log("SOL");
console.log("LA");
console.log("SI");
```

- Does something happens in your console ? No ! We have to call it !

- After the declaration of the function, call it `myFunctionName()`

- Now you should see in the console the result of your function.

- Now, call the function many times.

- Each time you call it, it will repeat the console.log

---

Do you realize `console.log` is a function ?
We need to put parenthesis after it and we pass it an argument (what we want to log)

Same thing for `alert()`, `slice()`, `splice()`, `pop()`, `push()`, `sort()`, `includes()`, `join()`, etc.

Some need an arguments (or many arguments), others don't need any.

---

#### Arguments

We can pass arguments to a function. That make the function dynamic. The result of the function will be different depending on what parameter you pass to it :

```js
function greet(name) {
  console.log(`Hello, ${name}!!`);
}
```

So now we can call this function many times, but with different configurations :

```js
greet("Henrique");
greet("Yassine");
greet("Chewbacca");
```

Result in console :

```
"Hello, Henrique!!"
"Hello, Yassine!!"
"Hello, Chewbacca!!"
```

---

#### Many arguments

You can put as many argument you want in a function in order to make it work as wanted :

```js
function averageOfThree(arg1, arg2, arg3) {
  return (arg1 + arg2 + arg3) / 3;
}
```

This example shows a function that takes three arguments and returns the average.

You can pass anything as a parameter : strings, numbers, arrays, objects, booleans, etc. Just make sure you handle the different value types correctly (checking if it a number indeed, or an array, etc)

---

Little comment : for some weird reason, when we declare a function after we call it, it works ! But good practice is to always declare it before.

---

Here are some videos :

[What are functions](https://youtu.be/uxkRydQKKX8?si=TTGPYPlBlPm5j4_Q)
[Functions Expressions](https://youtu.be/T8tilXV03UI?si=Fauqfh9LZ8Dy68mN)
[Parameters and arguments](https://youtu.be/k1-tpFDyUwo?si=LBumcYil-zxwMUqU)
[Functions return](https://youtu.be/4t8Q_YLpuKw?si=CPgbd21vA3P2yVdY)
