### JavaScripts "Scope"

---

Here is the definiton of `scope` in plain English language :

```
the extent of the area or subject matter that something deals with or to which it is relevant.
```

`scope` in JavaScript means in which "block" the variable lives in.

Let me give you an example :

```js
for (let i = 0; i < 5; i++) {
  console.log(i);
}

// This is the last line
console.log(i);
```

- What will be the result of the last line ?
- You might answer `5`. But that is not correct.
- The truth is that the result will be `undefined`.
- Why ? Because you declared `i` in the scope of the loop. So `i` doesn't exist outside.
- When you try to console.log `i` outside of the loop, it was not been declared in the `global scope`

This would work :

```js
const i = "Hello World";

for (let i = 0; i < 5; i++) {
  console.log(i);
}

console.log(i);
```

The result in your console would be :

```
0
1
2
3
4
"Hello World"
```

Did you get why ?
Try for yourself and see in the console on which line the log was done ;)

---

If we declare a variable in the global scope (not in a loop, or function, or object, etc.) it will be available to the whole program.

But it you declare a variable inside of one of these, it will only live inside of it.

So, technically this is ok :

```js
const hello = "Hello";

function myFunc() {
  const hello = "something else";
  console.log(hello);
}

myFunc();

for (let hello = 0; hello < 3; hello++) {
  console.log(hello);
}

console.log(hello);
```

And the result in the console would be :

```
"something else"
0
1
2
"Hello"


```

In practice, we will avoid to use the same variable names just so the code is clearer. But sometimes it's easier.

An example is in the for loops. It's almost standard that we use the letter `i` (don't ask me why ! probably because it stands for `index`).

But I can have many for loops one after the other. And because of `scope`, I can always use `i` and it won't interfere. Each `i` lives inside of its loop scope.

---

Ok.. but here is a question :

What if we introduce this code :

```js
let animal = "dog";

function animalWatch() {
  let animal = "cat";
}

animalWatch();
console.log(animal);
```

The result would be : `dog`

Because the variable `let animal = cat` was inside the scope of the function.

But what if write it like this :

```js
let animal = "dog";

function animalWatch() {
  animal = "cat";
}

animalWatch();
console.log(animal);
```

Then the result would be `cat`

Because inside the function we didn't create a variable that would live inside the scope. We just reassigned the already existant `animal` to another value.

Get it ? :)

---

And now we can understand why we use `let` and `const` instead of `var`.

`var` is always a global scope variable, which can lead to many confusions.

Here is a video about [scope](https://youtu.be/ky2mNs4kGh8?si=niRhVIMtC1fiz92p)
And another on [hoisting](https://youtu.be/QEayOiHzrFM?si=4QJ8840cJJMrx1An)
;)
