# Miscellaneous

---

Some topics to check :

- Try/Catch
- Default params
- Spread
- Destructuring
- setTimeOut() setInterval()
- Dates

---

#### Try/Catch

Try/Catch is a block of code that "tests" a code and if it can't run it, it will be "catched" by the second part of the block. Let's check!

Let's say I **have not** declared a variable called `hello `and then I try to console.log it. I'll get an **error** and my program will break.

Try for your self :

```js
console.log(hello);

console.log("End of program");
```

See ? The console.log `"End of program"` never ran ! Because your program broke. It stopped !

The try/catch can prevent this.

```js
try {
  console.log(hello);
} catch {
  console.log("The above code didn't work");
}

console.log("End of program");
```

You're saying TRY to run this code, otherwise if it doesn't work, run what's inside the CATCH.

Try to run the above snippets in your javascript file and check the console.

We will use TRY/CATCH all the time with async/ajax javascript in order to call api, etc.

---

#### Default params

Did you know you could give default parameters to a function ?

For example :

```js
const multiplication = (num1: 1, num2: 3) => num1 * num2;

console.log(multiplication(3, 5));
console.log(multiplication());
```

In the console :

```
15
3
```

Normally, the second call to the function would break because we didn't pass any arguments while the function expects two arguments.

But because we put some default params, it says : if we don't pass any parameters, use 1 for num1 and 3 for num2

This can be very handy to use a default function result but be able to change it if we want.

---

#### Spread operator

The spread operator is represented by `...`

You can use it with arrays and objects as well.

For example :

```js
const arr1 = ["cat", "dog"];
const arr2 = [...arr1, "panda"];

console.log(arr2);
```

```
["cat", "dog", "panda"]
```

We created a new array and "spread" the other inside of it.

This could be very handy to copy an array for example.

You know (you should have seen this in the past articles) that you can't copy an array with just

```js
arr2 = arr1;
```

This is because of `reference type` (remember ? if not, go look for it !).

If you assign arr2 to be arr1, they both share the same reference. That means : if you change `arr1`, you'll be changing `arr2` as well.

But ! If you create a whole new array and spread the other array to it, you'll be in fact copying this array into a new one.

```js
// Let's copy the arrayOne !
const arrayOne = [1, 2, 3, 4];

const arrayTwo = [...arrayOne];

arrayOne.push(5);

console.log(arrayOne);
console.log(arrayTwo);
```

In the console :

```
[1,2,3,4,5]
[1,2,3,4]

```

---

#### Destructuring

Want to create many variables from an object ?

Let's see...

```js
const myObject = {
  firstName: "William",
  lastName: "Wallace",
  age: 37,
  profession: "warrior",
};

const firstName = myObject.firstName;
const lastName = myObject.lastName;
const age = myObject.age;
```

Pfff... what a pain in the butt !

You could destructure :

```js
const { firstName } = myObject;
```

That means : Take the property `firstName` of the object `myObject` and create a variable from it with the same name.

You can destructure many properties at once !

```js
const { firstName, lastName, age, profession } = myObject;

// Then :

console.log(firstName);
console.log(lastName);
console.log(age);
console.log(profession);
```

Console:

```
"William"
"Wallace"
37
"warrior"
```

We will use this all the time in React !

---

#### setTimeOut()

This is a native functions that take two parameters :

- First : a function to be called
- Second : After how long it will run (in milliseconds)

```js
console.log("Hello!");

setTimeOut(() => {
  console.log("I've been logged 2 seconds after the first log");
}, 2000);
```

This will log `hello` and then, after two seconds : `I've been logged 2 seconds after the first log`

---

#### setInterval()

Same syntax as `setTimeout()`, but this time it will run undefinetely every x seconds. To stop it, you'll have to call `clearInterval()`

But be careful ! You are not obligated, but I strongly advise you to set the `setInterval` to a variable. So you can call this variable when you use `clearInterval()`

```js
const timer = setInterval(() => {
  console.log("hello");
}, 2000);

clearInterval(timer);
```

---

#### Dates

Dealing with dates are essential in a programming language.

This topic can be quite complex, so invite you to take a look at [this](https://www.w3schools.com/js/js_dates.asp)
documentation and at [this](https://youtu.be/-H6xNrnFI80?si=9IVz1AIgqdBQhoAm) video

---
