# Async Javascript : Oh boy...

---

Heelloooooowww there !!!

**WELCOME** to this new week ! Oh boy.. Things are gonna get wild !

We will tackle the matter of asynchronous JavaScript.

And what do I mean by that ? Well... I'm glad you asked !

Let's see !

---

Let's begin undestanding how JavaScript code is _called_ by the browser.

JavaScript "reads" and runs its code line by line.

Sometimes, a line calls a function. JavaScript then goes to the function, reads the function line by line and then come back to the line it was before and so on...

Reproduce this in your code :

```js
console.log("Program starts");

let a = 1;
let b = 2;

console.log(`Variable a (${a}) and b (${b}) are declared`);

const sum = (num1, num2) => {
  console.log(`I'm inside the function`);
  return num1 + num2;
};

console.log("Function declared but not called yet");

console.log(sum(a, b));

console.log("Function was called");

for (let i = 0; i < 3; i++) {
  console.log(`I am inside the loop. I am turn ${i}`);
}

console.log("end of program");
```

See the logic JavaScript took ?

It goes line by line... When it calls the function it goes through the function then come back to where it was... It enters the loop, run 3 times the code inside the loop, then continues linearly trough the code.

This is pretty easy to understand. But what if we put a `setTimeOut` ?

Try for your self !

Reproduce this same code but this time with `setTimeOut`

```js
console.log("Program starts");

let a = 1;
let b = 2;

console.log(`Variable a (${a}) and b (${b}) are declared`);

const sum = (num1, num2) => {
  console.log(`I'm inside the function`);
  return `The result from the function is ${num1 + num2}`;
};

console.log("Function declared but not called yet");

console.log(sum(a, b));

console.log("Function ran");

setTimeout(() => {
  console.log("I ran after 2 seconds");
}, 2000);

for (let i = 0; i < 3; i++) {
  console.log(`I am inside the loop. I am turn ${i}`);
}

console.log("end of program");
```

Look at your console now. We arrived at the "end of the program", but only later (after two seconds) the log of the setTimeOut arrived.

It's pretty logic when we think about it...

But this can cause some problems...

For example :

Look at this code :

```js
let str = "Start";

setTimeout(() => {
  str = "Finish";
}, 2000);

console.log(str);
```

The log will be `Start`, and never will be `Finish`.

It logs first the value of `str` ("Start") then after two seconds it assigns "Finish" to the variable, but at this time, the program already ran, and we never got the log of "Finish"

Again, it's pretty logic... So where is the problem ?

---

Well, the problem is that very often (when we will call external values through an API for example), the result will take a while to arrive. (even if it's 1 millisecond, it's still out of the stack of JavaScript)

Try for yourself with 1 millisecond :

```js
let str = "Initial";

setTimeout(() => {
  str = "End";
}, 1);

console.log(str);
```

---

So what if I want to use the data an API sent me in my code ? By this logic, all my program will always run before the data was received !

We will get an optimal answer to that. But for now, let's see some examples of the old way we used to deal with this problem.
