# Async / Await

---

Ok.. I hope you're feeling ok(ish) with promises.

Now let's see a last stategy we could use with promises to replace the `then / catch` syntax.

I am talking about `async functions`

---

**Async functions** are a newer and cleaner way for working with async code. It's syntax "makeup" for promises.

Honestly I use it all the time instead of `.then().catch()`.

---

Basically, when you declare a function you tell it it shoud be async.

```js
const myFunc = async () => {
  // Some code here
};

// Or :

async function myFunc() {
  // Some code here
}
```

This function being asynchrounous, you can tell code that returns a promise to be awaited before going to the next line.

```js
const myFunc = async () => {
  const response = await getSomeData(); // getSomeData here returns a promise
  const data = await getAnotherData(response); // getAnotherData returns a promise as well
  console.log(data);
};
```

Here, we are assigning to `response` the data returned by the function `getSomeData`;

We **wait** for this response to go to the next line and use `response` to call another async data with `getAnotherData`, **waiting** as well to go to the next line.

The `console.log` will run only after the data before were retreived.

---

We are this close to put this in practice with APIs ! Hang on !!!

There is a last question to be answered :

**_How can we handle errors with async/await ?_**

We know that with the `.then` method we can chain at the end `.catch` that will receive the data in case of failure.

To handle an error with async/await, what we must do is enter in a `try/catch` block :

```js
const myFunc = async () => {
  try {
    // Code that we run to retrieve data
  } catch() {
    // Will run if anything goes wrong in the try block
  }
};
```

So... let's try to make sense of all of this in a very simple example. Let's get back to the rainbow exercise:

- Create a function `generateBG` that takes two parameters (`color`, `delay`)
- This function returns a promise that turns the background color of the body `color` after `delay` time. Then it resolves.
- Now you create an async function that calls and wait generateBG for each color given in the exercise :
  - blue
  - yellow
  - red
  - cyan
  - violet
  - green
  - purple

Done ?
Look at this code ! Simple and legible ! :)

---

Now, let's give it a litte bit of imprevisibility :

- In the function `generateBG`, create a random number between 0 and 0.999
- If the random number is bigger than 0.5, reject the promise.
- Run your program.
- You'll see that at some point you'll get a native browser error (`Uncaught (in promise)`)
- We want to handle this error and not have the default error that breaks our code.
- Use try/catch to console.log `oh no! an error` if there is a problem

(remember, you have a 50% chance of getting an error, so play with the condition in `generateBG` to have less or more chances )

---

Watch this video :

[Async/Await in 7 minutes](https://youtu.be/V_Kr9OSfDeU?si=ljYz4YZrExXTTozL)
