# API

---

`Application Programming Interface`.

It's really a very broad term that refers to many types of interfaces in programming.

But generally, in the realm of the web, when we talk about APIs, we're talking about `web apis`

What does that mean in practice ?

We've already talked a little bit about backend, and how the backend "exposes" some `endpoints` to the public.

Example of `endpoints` :

- becode.org
- becode.org/about-us
- becode.org/jobs
- etc.

All the `routes` are `endpoints`.

These `endpoints` are constantly listening to requests. If we request `becode.org` it sends back the html, css and js that constitutes this page.

If we try to enter the endpoint `becode.org/blabla` the backend will send us a message with an error 404 ("this page wasn't found")

Well... the backend can also create endpoints that sends us data (in JSON format) instead of a page.

For example... Github has many endpoints :

- github.com
- github.com/VieiraHenrique (it's my profile)
- github.com/issues
- etc.

Each of these endpoints sends back a bundle of html, css and js in order for your browser to display a page.

Try to enter this endpoint :

- `api.github.com/users`

WHAT THE HELL !!!!

You got a response ! But it's not a page. It's JSON !!!!!

(By the way, you can install an extension in Chrome to visualize JSON data in a more organized way. Click [here](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/jsonvue/chklaanhfefbnpoihckbnefhakgolnmc?utm_source=ext_sidebar&hl=fr))

GitHub has a very easy to access public API that you can just enter via its endpoints without any authorization.

Often, you will need to pass to your request some info in order to get back a response. Not in this case !

There are several APIs that you can check directly in your browser :

Look at this one :

- https://catfact.ninja/fact
  (it's programmed to give you a different cat fact each time you request the endpoint)

Here are other ones :

- https://api.coindesk.com/v1/bpi/currentprice.json
  (gives us the current BitCoin price in USD, GBP and EUR)

- https://dog.ceo/api/breeds/image/random
  (gives you the url of a random image of a dog)

- https://official-joke-api.appspot.com/random_joke
  (gives you a random joke)

Etc.. etc..

These are very simple api. It can get (waaaay) more complex (and interesting).
