# HTTP Headers

---

Ok... We're getting there !

We saw we could expose parameters in the url with query strings.

We're gonna see now another (and always present) way of passing and receiving data within a request/response.

It's what we call the `Headers` of a request/response.

Think of it like the meta tags of HTML. They are not to be seen, but contain lots of information about the request and response in question.

All requests and responses have a `Headers`

Even if you just enter on a website, you are sending a `Headers` to the server and the server answers with a `Headers` as well.

In order to see that, go to your inspector in the `Network` tab.

Go to the page `becode.org`.

You'll see a list of all ressources downloaded from the server at your left.

If you select the first one (the document `becode.org`), you'll be able to see the request/response info on "General" as well as the `Response Headers` and the `Request Headers`

We won't need to know all these information (thank god !), but some of them we will have to use.

For example, there is one we will often have to use is the `Accept`

We're basically telling what kind of format we are expecting to receive with this request.

Its default is `text/html`, images, etc.

But it can be `JSON` for example.

Want a particular case to check ?

Look at this API :
`https://icanhazdadjoke.com/`

It's an API that sends you a random dad's joke.

It's an API, but it's also a website !

If you enter this URL you will land on a page. But if you do a request with `Accept: JSON` in the `Headers`, it will send you the JSON with the joke.

That's how this particular backend was programmed.

---

Try it on Postman. Make just a regular `GET` request to this url.

You'll see that the response is an HTML page.

But now, go to the tab `Headers` and put the key/value pair :
`Accept` : `application/json`

Now you are making a request to the API.

Again... that's how the backend of this website was built. It's not always like that.

A big part of your job when consuming APIs will be reading the docs and getting to know how you can use it.

`Headers` are not only for the answer format. So many things can exist in the `Headers`. Like authentication information in order to retreive data that is protected, etc.
