# Flex exercise

---

Howdy there !

First things first : although this exercise is to work with flex, don't force yourself to use it all the time. If a solution is better/simpler than flex, just use it ! :)

### Feature things to know to do this exercise :

- Center the card on the screen (remember : the width of the body is already 100vw but the height is given by the content or by forcing it with the `height` property. You can use flex to justify and align the card at the center)
- The concept of `position absolute / relative`
- The concept of the `transform` property

### Instructions

- **_Read and follow ALL THE COMMENTS_** in the [Figma file](https://www.figma.com/file/vZ4JwyonFDZ4cZXM1fnyNP/EXERCISE2?type=design&node-id=1%3A18&mode=dev). They contain several tips in order to sucessfully complete the exercise.

### Some tips regarding Figma.

- Figma is a **_design_** software ! It surely give us some suggestions of code, but YOU are the coder, not Figma! Sometimes you should be able to disregard what it says.
- When it comes to `font-size, letter spacing, font-weight, text transform, colors`, etc. Figma is king in delivering you the details.
- When it comes to layout, even tought the dimensions are right for this particular screen, don't focus your code with that. My suggestion : in the right panel, instead of choosing the dropdown `code`, choose the dropdown `properties`. At the end, that's what we need from the design. Not their code ! Most of the times, you can ignore the Layout tab.

Good luck, young padawans !
