# DOM Selectors

---

Create an `index.html` file and generate a boilerplate. `!`

Inside the body, copy this code :

```html
<div class="container">
  <h1 id="main-heading">Favourite movies</h1>
  <ul>
    <li class="list-item">The Godfather</li>
    <li class="list-item">Braveheart</li>
    <li class="list-item">Casino</li>
    <li class="list-item">Annie Hall</li>
    <li class="list-item">Goodfellas</li>
  </ul>
</div>
```

Then, create an `app.js` file and link it to the `index.html`.

Open the page in the live server and open your console.

Great ! We are ready to do some experimentation.

---

In order to manipulate an element of the DOM tree, we must be able to select this particular element. There are several methods to do this.

The five major ways are :

```js
getElementById();

getElementsByClassName();

getElementsByTagName();

querySelector();

querySelectorAll();
```

### getElementById

This one is pretty self-explanatory. It selects an element relative to its ID.

So for example, in our page there is the h1 with id `main-heading`.

In your `app.js` you can now create a variable and assign to it :

```js
const mainHeading = document.getElementById("main-heading");
```

In your console type `mainHeading` and ENTER.

You can see that it return the h1 element. And if you hover it, you will see that the `h1` in your page highlights.

We will see more later, but for now :

- call the property `style` (which is yet another object) and the property `color` inside of it and tell it should be `red`.

Can you visualize how to do that ?

Here we go :

```js
const mainHeading = document.getElementById("main-heading");
// Now, mainHeading is an object that represents the h1 with id "main-heading"

mainHeading.style.color = "red";
// Inside the object mainHeading, we call the property "style" (wich is an object as well) and then the property color inside of style. We then assign "red" as a value to the color.
```

See what's going on ?

`document` (main document object)
→
`h1#main-heading` (element object, child of `document`)
→
`style` (property of `h1#main-heading` wich is also an object)
→
`color` (property of the object `style`)

In a very simplified way, it's like we had an object like this :

```js
mainHeading {
  style: {
    color: "red"
  }
}
```

### getElementsByClassName

See the `s` at then end of "Elements" ? This one selects many different elements at once.

It returns an array(-like) object with all selected elements.

### getElementsByTagName

Same thing as `getElementsByClassName` but this time is with tags name (`p`, `li`, `h1`, `div`, etc.)

Same thing : it will create an array-like object. You will be able to loop through it.

### querySelector and querySelectorAll

My favourite of them all !

These work like you were selecting elements via CSS selectors. So you can pretty much select anything the way you would with CSS!

```js
const heading = document.querySelector("#main-heading");

const heading = document.querySelector(".container");

const list = document.querySelector("ul");

// etc.
```

Warning : if you want to select many elements, you have to use the `querySelectorAll`

The `querySelector` will only select ONE element. If you put `querySelector("li")`, it will only select the first list item that exists in the page.

But... if you use `querySelectorAll` it automatically returns an array with all matching elements.

Honestly I very rarely use another one than these two.

---

Want some videos ?

[getElementById](https://youtu.be/t90K6HExEJo?si=IjTLNhlWODB_ILor)
[get element by tag or class](https://youtu.be/oUpEKosnC8E?si=oewRsIGN2QTMSMVR)
[query selectors](https://youtu.be/JlgLDfINXvY?si=-Np9ApzIiQ_IUge8)
