# Event listeners

---

Ok, great ! Now, let's tackle what is mainly responsible for interactions in our web pages : **Event Listeners**

This is gonna be GREAT !

---

What if we could fire some piece of code ONLY if some event happens ?

When I say _event_, I am talking about, for example :

- Someone clicks a specific element of the DOM
- Someone hovers on an element.
- Someone presses a particular key on the keyboard.
- Someone resizes the window
- Someone submit a form
- The website is first loaded
- Etc...

Be able to handle these events with some logic is magical ! From there, we can do pretty much what we want on a "interactivity" point of view.

So, let's how it's done !

---

The simplest (but not the best) way of doing it, is simply putting an attribute directly into the HTML as such :

```html
<p onclick="alert('I love JavaScript')">Click me!</p>
```

This is a shorthand to insert javascript directly into your HTML tags. Basically, if we click this element, the javascript code between the double quotes will run.

This can be used, why not?, but I prefer following what we call in programming `separation of concerns`, where we separate each fonctionnality on its specifc place. (basically : have your js code in a js file, css code in a css file, etc.)

Anyways... I digress...

---

The best and most common way of doing is establishing in the JS file what we call an "event listener"

We take an element and give it a state of _*listening*_ ("waiting for") a particular event (a click, for example). The listener takes a callback function (a function that will be called once the event is done)

It continues to _listen_ undefinetly, unless we stop it.

Here is the syntax :

```js
const button = document.querySelector("button");

button.addEventListener("click", () => {
  alert("the button has been clicked");
});
```

You see the `addEventListener` takes two parameters : the _event_ itself as a string and a _function_ that will be called when the event occurs.

Of course, you could declare the function before and pass it as an argument to the event listener :

```js
const alertBtn = () => {
  alert("the button has been clicked");
};

button.addEventListener("click", alertBtn);
```

There is a huge list of events, but the most common ones are :

- `click` // Pretty self-explanatory
- `change` // When the state of the element changes (think of an input, each time we enter a letter, the input element is "changing")
- `mouseover` // When the mouse hovers the element.
- `mouseout` // When the mouse leaves the hover state of the element.
- `keydown` // When a user presses a key on the keyboard
- `load` // When the browser has finished loading the whole page
- `submit` // It's the event of submitting a form in HTML

---

Let's try some stuff ! Go to the next article ;)
