# Form events and tricks

---

Let's get back to the DOM events.

You might remember there is such an event called `submit`. That's an event belonging to the form that is submitted.

We can listen to the submission of the form and do several things. Including : preventing the default behavior of the form that refreshes de page.

That is done through the method `preventDefault()`:

```js
const form = document.querySelector("form");

form.addEventListener("click", (event) => {
  event.preventDefault(); // Prevents the page to submit the form (and therefore refresh the page)

  // Run some code then...
});
```

This way, you will not be submitting the form when you click to _submit_ it.

Why would we do that ?

Because there are so many things we can do with JavaScript to manipulate/check the data the user entered !

Through JavaScript, we can handle errors in the form, reformat data the way we need them, fire messages of success/error, etc.

That's what we are going to do in our next exercise.

For now, let's see some common workflow with forms, inputs and submit events.

---

#### The `value` property of an input

Let's start with an `input`. Did you know every input object has a property called `value` ?

You access it via JavaScript and can set it as well.

So try to do this :

- Create an input in your HTML.

- In your browser, write something in the input.

- Go to the console and select the input `document.querySelector('input')` and assign it to a variable `input`

- Now, write donw `input.value` in the console. It will return the value writen in the input.

- Now, still in the console, assign a string like "Hello World" to `input.value`.

- Look at the input in your browser, the text changed !

---

#### Keep track of an input with the "change" event

Want another usefull example ?

We can create a variable and assign it to the value of the input and track the change of the input with the `change` event.

Try for yourself :

- In your html, set an `input` tag of type `text`
- In your JS, create a variable `inputValue` with an empty string
- Add an event listener of type "change" to the input.
- Inside the callback, update the variable `inputValue` with the value of the input each time it changes and log it to the console.

---

Got a preview of what can be done ?
Let's get rolling and tackle the next exercise !
See you there ;)
