# Exercise : Form validation

---

Great ! You got here !!!

We're gonna do some validation on a register form.

Here are some instructions :

- You form should ask for :
  - username
  - email
  - password
  - confirmation of password
- It should also have a button to submit the form.
- Make it pretty ! Some styling in css will help. (That's a good opportunity to familiarize yourself with the styling of form inputs. It can be quite frustrating sometimes :()
- Below each input, put a paragraph with class "msg". These paragraphs should only appear if there is an error or success on submit.
- On submit, the text of a successful input should be green and red if there is an error.
- The message should say something like : `Must be at least 5 characters` etc.
- The validation should be as follow :
  - `username` must be only lowercase and at least 5 characters and at most 10 characters.
  - `email` should be a valid email adress (go learn about the concept of `regex` and find on google a regex that tests if a string is in a correct email format. Use the `match` method to test a string against a regex.)
  - `password` should be at least 8 characters and at most 15 characters.
  - `password confirmation` should be the same as `password`
- After all the tests passed and everything is green, when you submit, the input values should be logged to the console.

---

Small tips..

- In your HTML, try to put each label, input and `.msg` inside a parent div. This way, you can just give later to the parent div a class of "error" or "success" in order to have the proper styling.
- In you css, create an "error" and "success" class styling that will make the input and the `.msg` paragraph a particular style.
- In your js, think about using the `delegation` strategy we talked about. (an event listener to the parent, and targeting )
- Don't worry about optimization for now. Do it with a bunch of `if/else` in the beggining and then try to refactor it later.
