# NODE.js

---

Node is a standalone program that uses the V8 engine from Google (the one used in Google Chrome) to run JavaScript on your machine. You can now run JavaScript on your terminal, without using the browser !

This is huge ! Because if you install node on your server, you can now use JavaScript as a backend language as well !

Now, you only need to learn one language to create a full-stack application ! :)

But wait.. there is more : Node gives us the ability to do stuff that we can't do in the browser. For example : read and write files in your system, connect to a database, serve files...

---

So let's begin our journey with Node !

In the very beggining of this course you were led to install Node. So you should have it already.

In order to verify if you have it installed, go to your terminal and write down `node -v` (which stands for `version`).

If it gives you back the version, that means you have Node on your machine and therefore you're up to run.

If not, install Node from [its](https://nodejs.org/en) website.

---

Ok... now you have Node installed.
You can go to your terminal and enter the node engine typing `node`.

From there you can type any JavaScript command and it will run

```js
5 + 5; // Returns 10
const name = "John Doe";
console.log(name); // Log to the console "John Doe"
```

etc.

You also can create a JS file and run it through the console.

- In your terminal, create a folder and inside of it, a `myJs.js`
- Create a variable `myName` that holds a string and `console.log` it
- Now in your terminal, run the command `node myJs`
- You'll see the variable printed.
- Now, alert the variable `alert(myName)`

Oups ! Error !!!

Can you guess why ?

`alert()` is a method that belongs to the `window` object. But... we are not running JavaScript in the browser! So there is no `window` ! (And therefore no `document` as well.)

All you've learned about DOM manipulation in JS doesn't exist in Node.

But worry not ! We won't be needing them. ;)
