# Node basics

---

### Modules & Require

Sometimes (actually: almost all the time) we will want to split our code into many files.

This will help us organize our code into chunks of logic and avoid a huge monolitic file.

Little challenge :

- Create two js files. One called `main` and the other called `part`
- In `part` declare an array with several strings.
- The goal is that when you run `main`, it logs to the console the array that exists in `part`

Done with it ?
Great !

Now :

- In `part.js`, create a variable `pi = 3.14` and an object with some entries.
- In `main.js` log to the console each one of these values.

<details>
<summary>Open after completition</summary>
<br>

When we do a `module.exports =`...
and then a

```js
const abc = require("./part");
```

we are assigning to `abc` the value exported in `part`

But, what if we want to export many values ? We could export an object with several values.

So :

```js
module.export = { valueOne, valueTwo };
```

And then, destructure it when we required it.

```js
const { valueOne, valueTwo } = require("./part");
```

And then use `valueOne` and `valueTwo`.

</details>

---

### Built-in modules

Ok, so we saw how to export and import from and to other files. Did you know node.js has built-in modules we can import ? :)

Little challenge :

- Log to the console the operating system platform you are in.
- Log to the console the home directory of your machine.

<details>
<summary>Open after completition</summary>
<br>

There is such a built-in module to node called `os`
It's an object that contains many info about the operating system.

This object has many methods, including `platform()` and `homedir()`

If you assign the `os` module to a variable `os`, for example. You can call `os.platform()`, etc.

Here is the [list](https://www.w3schools.com/nodejs/ref_modules.asp) of builtin modules to node.js

</details>

---

### The File System module

Be able to read, modify and delete files, as well as creating directories, etc. is crucial for a server. Without Node, JavaScript can't do that.

- In your `main.js`, write some code to create a folder `test` and inside of it a file `notes.txt`. Its content should be `I am a BeCode warrior`
- Run `main.js` and check if the folder and the file were created.
- Then, write some code that log to the console the content of `notes.txt`
- Run `main.js` again
- Handle eventual errors you will get (no errors ? great !)
- Now, always with node js commands, delete the file `notes.txt`
- Delete the folder `test`

You might have noticed that the state of the folders/files will either work or throw an error. So write a little program that tests each time "if the folder exists, then... else..."

<details>
<summary>Open after completition</summary>
<br>

The file system module is called `fs` in Node.

With it, we can :

```js
fs.readFile(); // Read file
fs.writeFile(); // Write file
fs.mkdir(); // Creates a folder
fs.unlink(); // Delete file
```

**Write file**
writeFile takes three parameters :

- the path/name of the file we want to write on
- the content we want to write into it
- a callback that runs when the task is completed (it's an asynchronous task)

```js
fs.writeFile("./notes.txt", "I am a BeCode warrior", () => {
  console.log("File was written");
});
```

**Read file**
readFile takes two parameters :

- the path/name of the file we want to read
- a callback that runs when the task is completed. This callback receives two parameters : error and data.

But the data format that comes is what we call a `buffer`. So in order to see it, we can apply the method `.toString()`

So :

```js
fs.readFile("./notes.txt", (err, data) => {
  if (err) {
    console.log(err);
  } else {
    console.log(data.toString());
  }
});
```

**Create a directory**
mkdir takes two parameters :

- the path and name of the folder
- a callback function that runs after it's done.

```js
fs.mkdir("./assets", (err) => {
  if (err) {
    console.log(err);
  } else {
    console.log("Directory created");
  }
});
```

If the folder already exists you will get an error.

So we can use the `fs.existsSync()` method to check if the folder exists before creating it.

```js
if (!fs.existsSync("./assets")) {
  fs.mkdir("./assets", (err) => {
    if (err) {
      console.log(err);
    } else {
      console.log("Directory created");
    }
  });
}
```

**Remove a directory**
rmdir takes two parameters :

- the path and name of the folder you want to delete
- a callback function that runs after it's done.

Attention! As with your terminal, you can't remove a folder that is not empty. That's why you should know how to delete files.

**Delete file**
unlink takes two parameters :

- the path and name of the file to be deleted
- a callback function that runs after it's done.

Always check if a file exists before trying to delete it ;)

</details>

---

### Streams and buffers

Nice ! We know now how to write and read files. But our exercise was about reeeeealy small text content in a file.

We eventually will be reading **massive** files that can take a while to load.

That's where `streams` are usefull !

It's basically the ability to read and start using the data before it has finished loading.

We will be "streaming" the data of a file to our program and will be able to use it progressively. (It's the same concept of YouTube or Netflix...)

The stream is done by chunks (`buffers`). When each chunk of data is filled with the data, it becomes available to our program.

- Create a folder with a js file and an html file (`hugeText.html`).
- in the html create a lorem with 50000 wordsn(yes, fifty thousand!)
- In your js, require `fs`
- Create a read stream.
- In your readstream, listen for data coming. Each time a chunk of data comes, log to the console the data and then log `--------- CHUNK --------` so we can see the separation between chunks.

To create a new stream :

```js
const readStream = fs.createReadStream("./hugeText.html");

readStream.on("data", (chunk) => {
  console.log("--------- NEW CHUNK --------");
  console.log(chunk);
});
```

Run the program and look at your console : You will get many buffers separated by the lines `NEW CHUNK`.

These buffers can be converted to text using the `toString()` method.

OR...

We can pass as the second argument of the `createReadStream` stipulating that the encoding should be UTF8 (our regular numerical alphabetical standard)

```js
const readStream = fs.createReadStream("./hugeText.html", { encoding: "utf8" });
```

**By yourself**

Go look for the concepet of `writeStream` in order to do the inverse : write down into a file by chunks.

- Within the same code from above, add a writeStream and write each chunk you receive from `hugeText` into a new file `newFile`.

;)

<details>
<summary>Open after completition</summary>
<br>

```js
const fs = require("fs");

const readstream = fs.createReadStream("./test/hugeText.html", {});

const writeStream = fs.createWriteStream("./test/newText.html");

readstream.on("data", (chunk) => {
  console.log("---- NEW CHUNK ----");
  console.log(chunk);

  writeStream.write("\n NEW CHUNK \n");
  writeStream.write(chunk);
});
```

</details>

---

- Did it ? Great. Now go find a way of doing the same thing with ONE method. Go look for the concept of `pipe`
