# Client and Servers

---

Little recap :

There are two ends in the web dynamic :

- the **client** (your machine : your browser) and;
- the **server** (a remote machine that receives requests from the client and responds to them)

When we type a website adress (url) in our browser, it sends a request to the server.

The server receives this request and decides what to send back to the client. (In most cases, it will be an html, a css and a js file. But it can be images, JSON, etc. )

That's the basic job of the server : _come up with the right answer for each different kind of request._

As I told you, for a long time we could NOT program a server with JavaScript. NOW, with Node we can !

---

Want to create a server with Node ?

Let's tackle this, shall we ?

We are going to create a local server on our machine.

This server is going to actively listen for requests from our browser and respond with what we want.

---

### Creating a server

Before creating a server, just a small explanation on `localhost` and `ports`.

#### Localhost

`localhost` is like the domain name of the local IP adress of your machine.

Everytime your machine calls the IP `127.0.0.1` (the ip of `localhost`), it's calling itself.

`localhost` is like the domain name of the IP `127.0.0.1`

So... if you do a request in your browser to, let's say, the becode.org domain name, you would be calling the IP `34.253.116.158` (a remote machine somewhere). If you do a request to the domain name `localhost` you would be calling the IP `127.0.0.1`. Basically, you would be calling your own machine.

#### Port numbers

A `port` number is like a door into a computer.

For example, different softwares that communicate with the internet occupy different ports in your computer for their communication. "Discord" for example, uses a specific port in your computer for its communication with the internet.

A server also needs a `port` to comunicate through.

You're probably using the extension `live server` on your VSCode. When you launch it, you can see it occupies the port `:5500`.

You can check it in your browser url :

`127.0.0.1:5500`

So... the IP `127.0.0.1` (our own machine) on the port `5500`

A common port we use in local development is `3000`. But you can use whatever you want, taking in consideration that the port can not be used by another service at this port at the same time.

---

Challenge :

Use the `http` built-in module of Node to :

- create a server
- listen on port 3000 for requests.
- When you start listening, you should log to the console `Listening for requests on port 3000`
- Now enter on your browser the url `localhost:3000` (no response will be sent, so your browser will run infinitely)
- Now, make that when you enter `localhost:3000` you log to the console `A request was made.`

Remember that the console is the one of your computer. Not the console of the browser ! You're not sending any code to the browser yet !

Remember as well that you always have to kill the process of the server in your console and restart it to see the changes. We will see later a way to make it respond to any change in a `live server` way.

<details>
<summary>Open after completition</summary>
<br>

With the `http` module, we can use the method `createServer()` with a callback function that will run every time a request comes in.

This callback receives two parameters : the `request` and `response` objects

The request object (we can call it `req` for example) comes with loads of info about the request, like : the url requested, the request type (GET, POST,...), etc.

The response object (`res` for example) is the object that holds many methods to respond to the user in the browser.

Creating a server is not enough. You must tell node to listen for a request on a specifc IP and a specifc port. And also, use a callback that will be run when you start listening.

```js
const http = require("http");

const server = http.createServer((req, res) => {
  console.log("request made");
});

server.listen("3000", "localhost", () => {
  console.log("Listening for request on port 3000");
});
```

</details>
