# Requests and Responses

---

Let's play with the objects `req` and `res` !

- Write some code that logs to the console the url you entered and the method you used.
- Enter the URL `localhost:3000/about` in your browser and check the console.
- Now, create a response with a `Header` that sets the content-type to `text/plain`. (That means we are sending plain text to the browser. Not html, or json, or something else. Just text)
- The text of the response should be `Hello from the server`
- Enter `localhost:3000` in your browser to see the result.
- In your browser inspector, inside of `Network`, check the Headers of the request and make sure the Content-Type is indeed `text/plain`

<details>
<summary>Open after completition</summary>
<br>

The `req` object has many (and many) properties with bunch of info, as well as plenty of methods.

The property `url` holds the url we entered (for example `/about`) and the property `method` holds the method used for the request (for example `GET`).

The `res` object has many methods to respond to the client.

One of them is `setHeader`, that takes two arguments (the key and the value)

Another one is the `write` method that sets the content of the response itself.

Don't forget to **end** the response. That means : we prepare the response (writing it) then finally we send it (ending the preparation of the response.) This is done by using the method `end()`

```js
const http = require("http");

const server = http.createServer((req, res) => {
  res.setHeader("Content-type", "text/plain");
  res.write("Hello from the server");
  res.end();
});

server.listen("3000", "localhost", () => {
  console.log("Listening for request on port 3000");
});
```

</details>

---

Now :

- Set the Header to accept html as the content type.
- Send some html : an h1 saying `This is my awesome title from the server` and an anchor tag saying `I am an anchor tag` that goes to `/services`
- Check in your browser. You'll see that you can click on the anchor tag and you'll get the same page (it's the only response we give to any request on your server)

<details>
<summary>Open after completition</summary>
<br>

```js
const http = require("http");

const server = http.createServer((req, res) => {
  res.setHeader("Content-type", "text/html");
  res.write("<h1>This is my awesome title from the server</h1>");
  res.write("<a href='/about'>This is an anchor tag</a>");
  res.end();
});

server.listen("3000", "localhost", () => {
  console.log("Listening for request on port 3000");
});
```

</details>

---

Of course, this is not the way we will send HTML to our client.

We will be using external html files.

So...

- Create an `index.html` in a folder called `views`
- In this html, create a basic boilerplate and put some content in it.
- Make that your server responds the html file.

<details>
<summary>Open after completition</summary>
<br>

```js
const http = require("http");
const fs = require("fs");

const server = http.createServer((req, res) => {
  res.setHeader("Content-type", "text/html");

  fs.readFile("./views/index.html", (err, data) => {
    if (err) {
      console.log(err);
      res.end();
    } else {
      res.write(data);
      res.end();
    }
  });
});

server.listen("3000", "localhost", () => {
  console.log("Listening for request on port 3000");
});
```

</details>
