# NPM

---

So far we learned how to use core modules and packages built-in to the Node core.

But there are tons and tons of external packages we can make use of !

We can install them using NPM : **Node Package Manager**

This tool was automatically installed on your computer when you installed Node.

You can access its website [here](https://www.npmjs.com/)

There, you'll find thousands and thousands of packages (librairies, frameworks...) to install in a node/javascript application.

Want a grasp of it ? You can find `Swiper` on it, `AOS`, `fs-lightbox`, etc etc. You can also find `React`, `Next`, `Vue`, `Angular`, etc etc. !

Almost every public package, librairies and frameworks running on JS can be found there.

---

### Installing a package

When you install a package, you can either install it globally in your computer and then all your applications can make use of it, either install it as a dependency of the project itself.

Very often, we will install a package for a specific project. (Let's say `Swiper` for a specific website...)

But some times, if the package is more a "developer's tool" that we will use accross many projects, installing it globally makes more sense.

#### package.json

The `package.json` is a file that keeps track of all packages we installed into our local project. It also holds things like project details and project-specific scripts.

In order to create it, type `npm init`

A series of questions about your project will be asked. You can leave them empty for now.

It will automatically create a `package.json` and, as soon as you install a package to this project, it will be added to the list of **dependencies** in the file.

You'll see that when you install a package, there is a `node_modules` folder that will be created where all the code from these packages come from into your project.

After installing many packages, the size of your folder can become very heavy. That's why we never upload the `node_modules` to github. And that's also why the `package.json` is so useful !

If you clone a repository, you don't need the `node_modules` of the project. Only the `package.json` ! You can then just type `npm install` and it will download all the dependencies of the projet.

- Go look for `.gitignore` in order to know how to ignore files in your git repository

---

#### Let's install !

Now you have a `package.json`, let's start installing some packages, shall we ?

We will now install two packages : `Nodemon` and `Express`

What is Nodemon ? I am glad you asked !

Did you realize how painfull it was to stop and restart your server all the time when working with a node server ?

Well.. Nodemon is there for you ! It allows you to reload automatically the server each time there is a change in your files. That's gonna significatively speed up our development process.

Go ahead and [install](https://www.npmjs.com/package/nodemon) it !

Don't know how to use it ? GIYF ! (Google is your friend)

---

Now once you have nodemon, the next step is to dive deep into `express`. See you in the other side ;)
