# Middlewares

---

Middlewares is code that runs between the request and the response.

We receive a request, we perform some logic (middleware) and then send some response.

The `use()` method in `express` is generally used to run some middleware code.

The `use()` method will receive all the incoming requests, regardless of what kind or what endpoint was hit.

We don't need to have just one middleware. We can chain many functions to be ran in the server before sending a response.

Technically, all the code you run in the callback of a `app.get('/', callback)` is a middleware : some logic you implement before sending a response.

The difference is that a `get('/', callback)` will run a function in a specifc case (a `GET` request to a specific route `/`)

The `use()` method is ran everytime a request comes in. The advantage is that it has access to the `request` object with all its info. We could then "pre-process" the data from the request to then "serve" it to the different routes it can be used by.

In order to keep the flow, you must call the `next()` function that is received in the parameters.

```js
use((req, res, next) => {
  // do some stuff
  next(); // Keep going with the code.
});
```

One very usefull case for middlewares is `authentication`. For example, verify if the user is logged in and check if he's authorized to get the requested data.

---

You can create your own middlewares and also use some premade middlewares.

One very common is the [body parser](https://www.npmjs.com/package/body-parser) middleware that comes now builtin with Express.

What does it do ?

It parses the body of the request and make it available in the req.body object.

Let's try this :

- Create an express server and listen to it.
- Make it that when you get a `POST` request to `/` you log to the console the body of it.
- With Postman, send a `POST` request to `/`. The body should be `x-www-form-urlencoded` type and the key/value pairs as you wish. (We are emulating here the sending of a form data)

What prints to the console ? `undefined`

That's because the body wasn't parsed.

- Use body-parser (or the newest native method of express) to parse the `urlencoded` data you received from the request.
- You should now have access to the data you received from the request.

This data could be an user login info that should be compared to the database in order to check if the user exists and then log him in.

---

Little exercise:

- With a server created previously (the one that sends back index.html, about.html and 404.html at request for example) :
- Create a middleware that for each incoming request, you should log to the console the method of the request, the url requested and the status code that was sent.

It should look like this for every request that is done :

`POST /login 200`

---

Another exercise :

- Create a server
- Listen for a POST request on the root route
- Make it that you must receive in the `Headers` an `Authorization` of `123`
- If the Headers contains the correct authorization, respond with "Hello World".
- Otherwise, respond with "Not authorized"

WARNING : This is NOT the way of properly authenticate a user ! This is just for practice.

<details>
<summary>Open after completition</summary>
<br>

```js
const app = require("express")();

app.use((req, res, next) => {
  console.log("Inside the middleware");

  if (req.get("Authorization") === "123") {
    next();
  } else {
    res.send("Not authorized");
  }
});

app.post("/", (req, res) => {
  res.send("Hello World");
});

app.listen(3000, () => {
  console.log("listening to port 3000");
});
```

</details>

---

When we do the callback in a `get()`, `post()`... method in the app, we establish the route and then a callback. Did you realize that this callback is a middleware itself ? You can even use a `next()` to go to another middleware, that you can chain in the method parameters. Example :

```js
app.get("/", middlewareOne, middlewareTwo); //etc.
```

Yet another exercise !

- Create a server that serves an html for `/`, `/about` and `/secret` respectively.
- For each one, send back an html page.
- Caveat : the `/secret` page must only be showned if in the query `password` in the url is `IAmTheBigBoss`

<details>
<summary>Open after completition</summary>
<br>

```js
const app = require("express")();

const verifyPassword = (req, res, next) => {
const { password } = req.query;
if (password === "IAmTheBigBoss") {
next();
} else {
res.send("Not authorized");
}
};

const root = \_\_dirname;

app.get("/", (req, res) => {
res.sendFile("./views/index.html", { root });
});

app.get("/about", (req, res) => {
res.sendFile("./views/about.html", { root });
});

app.get("/secret", verifyPassword, (req, res) => {
res.sendFile("./views/secret.html", { root });
});

app.use((req, res) => {
res.sendFile("./views/404.html", { root });
});

app.listen(3000, () => {
console.log("listening to port 3000");
});

```

</details>

---

A little recap :

- Middleware are just functions
- Each middleware has access to the request and response objects.
- Middleware can end the HTTP request by sending back a response with methods like `send()`
- OR middleware can be chained together, one after another by calling `next()`

- Whathever function you put in the `use()` method will be called for every single request your server receives

- You must call the next middleware in order to proceed with the program (or terminate the process by sending a response)
