# Express Router

---

Ok... We've learned so far how to create routes in express and even how to implement some simple middleware.

When we talk about a few routes, we could define them as we've being doing : in a single file.

Think of a simple CRUD (**C**reate, **R**ead, **U**pdate, **D**elete) application. We could have something like this :

```js
const express = require("express");
const app = express();

const PORT = 3000;

app.get("/users", (req, res) => {
  res.send("Here are all the users");
});

app.get("/users/:id", (req, res) => {
  res.send(`Here is the user ${req.params.id}`);
});

app.post("/users", (req, res) => {
  res.send("User created");
});

app.put("/users/:id", (req, res) => {
  res.send(`User ${req.params.id} updated`);
});

app.delete("/users/:id", (req, res) => {
  res.send(`User ${req.params.id} deleted`);
});

app.listen(PORT, () => {
  console.log(`Listening to port ${PORT}`);
});
```

Ok, great... the file is not that big and we can find our way out with it. But what if we also must have CRUD routes for blog posts, categories, pictures, etc, etc. This file can become huge pretty quickly!

Organization is key inside a program. It must be maintanable and scalable. That's why there are many structure patterns to layout a project, one big one being the MVC patern (Model View Control).

Look at [this](https://youtu.be/DUg2SWWK18I?si=3vmZoChJ7zUaTnZG)

But before tackling this, let's start seeing how we could divide and organize our routes with the help of `express router`.

---

`Router` is a class belonging to express. It allows us to organize our routes in many different files (one per routes group) and has some handy tools to turn our job easier.

Let's practice a little bit !

- Create a server listening to port 3000
- We want to create CRUD routes for `users`, `posts` and `comments`.
- Create a folder `routes` where all these routes will belong to.
- Use `express Router` to link all the routes to the server.
- Think of creating generic routes that can be applied to a specific name. Ex :

The routes `get /users`, `post /users/:id`, `put /users/:id` etc. hava all the common name `users`. Let's say later we want to change it to `members`. Will I have to change it for all the routes I prepared ? There must be a better way ! Thanks to `express router` there is ! Go look for it ;)

[Here](https://youtu.be/0Hu27PoloYw?si=eDBO0eEp9bnSjVoN) is a nice video about it.
