# Templating

---

Ok then... let's keep going !

Untill now, we were dealing mostly with static content regarding our html, css and js. That means : all our content were hard-coded.

If the title was "My wonderful title", that would be hard coded into our HTML.

Yes, it's true : we injected dynamic content via JavaScript when we programmed our BeMovies application.

That means : we received a specific content from the server (a base html, css and js) and then, in the Front part, the JS changed the content.

But the response of the server is always the same !

We've been dealing essentially with **static** content.

---

Nevertheless, we are more than aware that nowadays the vast majority of websites are actually _applications_ with dynamic content.

Think of Facebook ! The skeleton of the website is the same for everybody. But each one of us have a very specific configuration of data that comes to us. (friends, pictures, comments, adds, etc.)

Think of Amazon ! When you are logged in, you have access to all your history of purchase, recommendations, basket, etc.

This is data coming directly from the server to you ! The data is processed by the server and then it sends as a response an HTML that has the specific info you, as an user, needs to have.

This is done on the fly by the server. There is no such HTML file with the title "Welcome back Henrique!" living in the server of Amazon !

When I request the HTML of the homepage of Amazon, Amazon verifies I am logged in and matches my profile to its database and then sends me all the content filled with my info.

Of course, they have a "template" that they fill with my info.

Well... We need then a way of creating these templates and fill them with the infos requested by the user.

That's where **templating engines** enter.

It's like HTML ! But instead of hard-coding the content, we put placeholders that will be filled with dynamic data.

In the next chapter we will dive into **EJS**, that is such a templating engine.
