# EJS - Embeded JavaScript

---

There are several templating engines we could use with Node.js : handlebars, pug, ejs...

PHP is by itself kind of a templating program. But there is also TWIG. Or for Python servers thre is Jinja..

Anyway... We are gonne be studying one of the most commonly used in Node : **EJS** (Embeded JavaScript)

---

Remember you've been using .html files in your server that you **send** via Node to your client ?

Now, instead of sending html files, you'll **render** the EJS and send the generated html file from it.

It works exactly like html, but with super powers !

---

Let's go for it !

- Create a server listening to port 3000
- Install EJS as a package
- Register the view engine in your Node application.
- Create `index.ejs` in your `views` folder and create a basic html boilerplate inside of it with an `h1` "Welcome!"
- Configure a request to `/` and respond rendering the file you created.
- See ? Exactly the same result as if you were sending an HTML file.
- Now, in your ejs file, create an `h2` saying "It's 12h44" (but with the right time)
  - That means : injecting JS to get the current time and displaying it.

<details>
<summary>Open after completition</summary>
<br>

Your server :

```js
const express = require("express");

const app = express();

app.set("view engine", "ejs");

app.get("/", (req, res) => {
  res.render("index");
});

app.listen("3000", () => {
  console.log("Server running on port 3000");
});
```

```ejs
<body>
    <%
    const date = new Date();
    const hours = date.getHours();
    const minutes = date.getMinutes();
    %>

    <h1>Hello !</h1>
    <h2>It's <%= hours + "h" + minutes %></h2>
</body>
```

`<% %>` opens an area to write some common javascript
`<%= %>` (with the "equals") tells that this is javascript that will be rendered on the page.

</details>

---

We are able now to send a response from the server with dynamic content !

Nice isn't it ?!!

We will soon be able to create and interact with databases and this ability to treat and send dynamic content will get wonderfully more complex and rewarding !

Keep the good work ! ;)
