# More EJS

---

What we will see in this chapter :

- More possibilities with JS in EJS files
- Passing data into views
- Partials

---

#### More possibilities with JS in EJS files

We can push the use of JS in EJS files even further.

We can create loops for example, and imbricate html with js inside these loops.

Here is an example :

```ejs
<!-- Here below we declare an array with some string -->
<% const myArr = ["Post one", "Post Two", "Post three"] %>
<!-- Here below we open a foreach and then close the javascript part so we can write some html afterwards -->
<% myArr.forEach(post => { %>
<!-- Here below is the html inside de loop. Inside of the h1 we render the content of the element of the array in the loop -->
<h1><%= post %></h1>
<!-- Here below we close the foreach -->
<% }) %>
```

Play around with it.

---

#### Passing data into views

Of course we won't usually be declaring data inside our ejs. We will mostly recup data from a database and then "pass" it to a view.

You can do this by passing a second argument to the `render` method in the file that handles the routes. This argument is an object.

```js
res.render("index", {});
```

You will then be able to use all the data inside the object as variables inside the ejs.

For example, if the object you pass as an argument to the `render` method is

```js
{
    firstName: "Henrique",
    lastName: "Vieira",
    age: 35
}
```

In your EJS, you'll have at your disposal the variables `firstName`, `lastName` and `age`

---

Let's practice !

- Take the following array of objects. Put it inside your server.js and pass it into the view. In the view, create a div for each element with an `h3` for the title, a `p` for the description and a `small` for the author. Put an `hr` at the end to separate them.

```js
const posts = [
  {
    title: "Post one",
    description:
      "Lorem, ipsum dolor sit amet consectetur adipisicing elit. Sapiente, tempora! Voluptatibus, quod.",
    author: "King Philippe",
  },
  {
    title: "Post two",
    description:
      "Lorem, ipsum dolor sit amet consectetur adipisicing elit. Sapiente, tempora! Voluptatibus, quod.",
    author: "Barack Obama",
  },
  {
    title: "Post three",
    description:
      "Lorem, ipsum dolor sit amet consectetur adipisicing elit. Sapiente, tempora! Voluptatibus, quod.",
    author: "Nelson Mandela",
  },
];
```

- Verify first if the array is empty or not. If it is, display "`no posts found`" (in order to test it, delete the content of the array)

<details>
<summary>Open after completition</summary>
<br>

In your server, declare the array of objects provided. Then pass it to the view.

```js
res.render("index", { posts: posts });
```

(or its shorter version:)

```js
res.render("index", { posts });
```

Now, in your `index.ejs` you will have a variable called `posts` that is the array you passed.

So... In `index.ejs` :

```ejs
<% if (posts.length) { %>
    <% posts.forEach(post => { %>
    <h3><%= post.title %></h3>
    <p><%= post.description %></p>
    <small> <%= post.author %> </small>
    <%})%>
<% } %>
```

</details>

---

See how powerful this is ?!

Very soon, we will be getting data from a database and then pass it to the views.

---

#### Partials

Very often, we will have the same chunks of html code in our different pages.

I am thinking about the `head` for example, or the `nav` and `footer`.

Instead of repeating yourself (think of the situation you have to change one thing in the `nav` and you'll have to change each and every file), you can create "partials" that you can import into your code over and over again.

- Create a server that receives `GET` requests for `index`, `about` and `contact`.
- Create each one of these pages.
- Inside `./partials/head.ejs` Create a `head` tag that will be included in each page.
- Accept dynamic data from the file that sets the routes with the title of the page.
- Set the title of the page to be the title received by the file that sets the routes.
- Navigate each page and check if the title on the tab of the browser is displayed accordingly.

<details>
<summary>Open after completition</summary>
<br>

You can use

```js
<%- include("./partials/head.ejs") %>
```

on the top of each page with, inside the `head` a tag `title`

```html
<title>My site | <%= title %></title>
```

</details>

---
