# Handling forms

---

Exercise to handle POST forms ;)

The goal is to have a form in a specific page to encode members.

When you encode a new member, you are redirected to the main page, where you display the members encoded.

- Create a server that receives GET requests for `/` and `/add` and renders its respective pages.
- In your `/add` page, create a form that asks for your first name, last name and age.
- The form should have a method of POST and it should be submitted to the page `/add` itself (but with POST method)
- (Don't forget the requirements for a proper form `action`, `method`, `name` for each field...)
- In your server file, create a middleware to parse `urlencoded` data (it can be with body-parser or the native express middleware)
- In your server file, declare an empty array `data`
- Configure a POST request for `/add` that will receive the data provided by the form and add it to the `data` array. Redirect then to `/`
- In the main page (`/`), display a list of each person you added with the form. (At the end, put a link to the `/add` page to add more members)

Some considerations :

Very soon, we will be saving these information to a database so it persists. For now, each time you restart your server, the data will be lost (because you're declaring an empty array of data at the beggining)

In a real world scenario, we would have to perform several validations that we are not doing here.

<details>
<summary>Open after completition</summary>
<br>

In your `add.ejs` :

```html
<form action="" method="POST">
  <input type="text" placeholder="First Name" name="firstName" />
  <input type="text" placeholder="Last Name" name="lastName" />
  <button>Submit</button>
</form>
```

(When you don't specify a path to `action`, it submits to the page itself. Which is what we want here)

In `app.js` :

```js
const express = require("express");
const app = express();

app.use(express.urlencoded({ extended: true }));

app.set("view engine", "ejs");

const data = [];

app.get("/", (req, res) => {
  res.render("index", { data });
});

app.get("/add", (req, res) => {
  res.render("add");
});

app.post("/add", (req, res) => {
  data.push(req.body);
  res.redirect("/");
});

app.listen(3000, () => {
  console.log("listening to port 3000");
});
```

And in the `index` page :

```html
<p>Here is the list of members :</p>
<hr />
<% data.forEach((member)=>{ %>
<h3><%= member.firstName + ' ' + member.lastName %></h3>
<hr />
<% }) %>
<a href="/form">Add member</a>
```

</details>

---
