# API

---

Let's create an API !

There is only one missing piece : the database.

So we are going to adopt the same strategy as the last exercise : creating an empty array each time the server is started and then update it.

Otherwise, we'll try to do our best to get the closest possible of a real api. :)

The goal here is to retrieve, add, update and delete (CRUD) a list of users for our web application.

The user structure should be :

```js
{
    id: "KUGF-57JNJ-JFNJDK-OUH3",
    username: "Glouglou43",
    firstName: "Henrique",
    lastName: "Vieira",
    age: 35,
    isAdmin: true,
}
```

Don't need to create views. The API will work solely based on JSON. The interactions will be handled by Postman (or any other http client).

The route of the API must be :

`GET /api/users`
`GET /api/users/:id`
`POST /api/users`
`PUT /api/users/:id`
`DELETE /api/users/:id`

---

Creating an API can be quite fun. The more tedious part is all the verification that goes with it (error handling). As programmers, we must think of all actions from the user (including all the errors that can happen) and know how to handle it.

If the user make a bad request, we must send an error message explaining why it can't work ("all required fields are not filled" in case of a bad POST request, for example). A 404 "This route doesn't exist"... "The user with id x doesn't exist"...

Specifications :

The `GET` requests are public.

`POST`, `PUT` and `DELETE` must have an `api_key` in the params. (So : `http://localhost:3000/api/users?api_key=blabla`)

---

- To `POST`, pass the info in the body of the request and verify if all the entries are correctly entered (all fields are required. The ID should be unique : use the package UUID).

Any questions are welcome and can be added in this chapter afterwards.
