# localStorage

---

Want a liiiiitle grasp of database ?

Let's get to know what `local storage` is !

`localStorage` is an object. An object belonging to the browser (so the `window` object)

It allows you to "save" information in your browser. So, you can add key/value pairs to it and it will be store by your browser, even if you refresh it or close it.

That's a little grasp of "persistent" data. Even though that would be the last place to store data in a real life scenario.

The local storage only applies to a specific domain. If you change domain (to domain B, for example) you will get access to the local storage of this particular domain. If you come back (to domain A) you will have access to the local storage of domain A.

You can check your localStorage when you enter your developer's tool on the browser. In the section `Application`, in the left you can see the `storage` tab and inside of it `Local Storage`. If you are in a blank page that you just launched with your live-server, it should be empty.

Let's try to add something to the local storage :

In your console, enter the following commands :

```js
localStorage.setItem("fisrtName", "Obi Wan");
localStorage.setItem("lastName", "Kenobi");
```

Now go look in your application tab at what we have : two key/value pairs with the data we provided !

Now, refresh the page and see. The data is still there !

You can even close the window and stop the live server.

Now if you relaunch it and enter on port 5500 you'll see that the data is still there. Persistance !!!

Here are the commands for the local storage :

```js
localStorage.setItem("firstName", "Henrique"); // Sets the key/value pair in the local storage
localStorage.getItem("firstName"); // Returns "Henrique"
localStorage.removeItem("firstName"); // Removes the key/value pair "firstName"/"Henrique" from your local storage. WHY WOULD YOU DO THAT !!!???
localStorage.clear(); // Removes everyhting from you local storage.
```

**ATTENTION** : The key/value pair in local storage only accepts `strings`

So if you want to convert an array for example to a string and vice versa, there are two methods you can use :

With the object `JSON` (we will see what json are later on) you can use two methods :

```js
JSON.stringify(); // Converts your javascript value to a string.

JSON.parse(); // Converts your string to a javascript value.
```

So :

```js
const myArr = [1, true, "hello"];
const myStringFromArr = JSON.stringify(myArr);

console.log(myStringFromArr);

// Will log the string : "[1, true, 'hello']". This is a string !

myArrBackFromStr = JSON.parse(myStringFromArr);

console.log(myArrBackFromStr);

// Will log the array [1, true, 'hello']. This is an array !
```

TRY FOR YOURSELF !

- Create an array in your javascript
- Use the method `JSON.stringify` on this array.
- Log to the console the type of the value (remember an array is an object)
- You'll see it's a string.
- Now, convert back this string to a javascript value using `JSON.parse`
- Log to the console the type of the value
- You'll see it's an object now ;)

We will have to use this strategy for our next challenge : a TODO list !
