# Exercises.

---

### 1. AOS

Very easy one (because the documentation is already pretty self-explanatory).

Create an html with four `sections`. Each section should have a height of `100vh` and a background color different from the others.

In the middle of each section put a title with an `h2`.

Make that on scroll
:

- the first title appear from the bottom.
- the second title appear from the left
- the third title appear from the right
- the fourth title appear scaling up

Well... you got that these four instructions are totally arbitrary. Play with the different possibilities of AOS ;)

### 2. Swiper

Download 9 pictures from [this](https://picsum.photos/images) page.

In a new HTML, create a `section` that takes the whole screen.

In the section, create a slider that shows 3,5 images at once. (yes, you heard me : three and a half)

You must include :

- pagination
- navigation button

Now, try to change the appearence of the navigation buttons. Instead of the original one given by swiper, use the pictures `prev.png` and `next.png` inside this folder.

### 3. FS Lightbox

In a new HTML, create grid of 3x3 pictures (aspect ratio 1) (you can use the images you downloaded before).

Make that, when we click on one of them, you open the lightbox. In the lightbox, we should be able to navigate through the 9 pictures.

### 4. Waypoints

In a new html, create a section with height `200vh` and another one with `100vh`, each one with a different background color.

The expected behavior should be : when we scroll down, in the edge to pass from section 1 to section 2, we should get an alert `Are you sure ? Things are wild down there`.

Then, when we scroll up from section 2 to section 1, another alert : `I told you ! `
